Blogging is a super effective way to grow as a programmer.
There is a magic in blogging that no one tells.
I won’t share fancy tips. Instead, I’ll tell you what it did to me.

Top 8 reasons why you should start blogging
It’s almost 2 years since I first began blogging!
Who would have thought that the simple decision to begin a blog would have led to many fantastic outcomes for me?
“A blog is a blank canvas and a virtual home that you can design however you want.”

1) Online Hub
A blog is where all the bits and pieces you create and explore in the online and offline world can be housed.
This could include videos, podcasts, articles, links, etc.
You can keep your blogs going year after year.
Blogs can keep your virtual world well organized (and they’re searchable!).
In that sense, it’s an excellent way to keep track of
Your thoughts
Your creations and learning, which you did in your tech career.
It’s like a digital filing cabinet.

2) Owner of Your Content
There are many blogging websites where you can publish your thoughts.
The fact is, though, this can be built on borrowed land.
There may be a lot of unpredictability.
The most secure option is to keep all of your work on a blog.

3) Creativity
Blogging allows you to be creative!
A feature of blogging that I have always loved.
Furthermore, blogging enables you to visually express yourself through original themes, headers, photographs, layouts, and graphics.
There’s an art to that…& it’s fun!

4) Social Skills and Confidence
Blogging allows specific individuals to practice communication, conversation, empathy, and other skills.
After then, they can be used in the “offline world.”
It’s essential that developers can communicate well both online & offline.

5) Increasing Thinking
Many bloggers discuss how writing down your thoughts helps to straighten out your thinking, develop your thinking, and help you figure out what you think.
Personally, I believe this to be true.

6) Authenticity
Blogs allow you to reach a much larger audience for your work.
They also provide an opportunity for feedback and self-improvement via commenting.
“Motivation seems to increase when developers write for a purpose.”

7) You have a voice
When publishing online, developers have the chance to have their voices heard.
Developers can write about their passions, concerns, their learning.
They can begin to feel empowered about making a difference in the world and assist others in understanding them.

8) Chance to develop connections
For me, this is one of the most exciting aspects of blogging.
A sense of understanding and tolerance can develop, and developers can learn a lot about the tech world in which they want to grow as next-gen developers.
So consider blogging.
Whether that means finding a blog to read, starting a blog once a week, once a month, or attempting it once in your tech career.
It can amount to a lot of reading when you think to do it, but it’s completely worth it for you and them.
Blogging is a conversation, not a code. – Mike Butcher
But if you know what you’re capable of & find some solid sponsors, it can eventually create perfect money.
