How does an open source development model work? An open source development model is the process used by an open source community project to develop open source software. The software is then released under an open source license, so anyone can view or modify the source code.

Many open source projects are hosted on GitHub, where you can access repositories or get involved in community projects. Linux , Ansible, and Kubernetes are examples of popular open source projects.

Learn Tools - If you wants to contribute in open source then you should learn Git commands and Github it can helps you to contribute because git a version control system terminal based and github is a hosting platform where you find all the projects.

Open Source program-

Gsoc(Google Summer of code) Google Summer of Code is a global program focused on bringing more student developers into open source software development. Students work with an open source organization on a 10 week programming project during their break from school.

MLH Fellowship The MLH Fellowship is a 12 week internship alternative for aspiring software engineers. Instead of interning at a single company, on the Open Source Track you'll contribute to the type of Open Source projects that every company depends on.

3.Educational Externship Track The MLH Fellowship is a 12 week internship alternative for aspiring software engineers. Fellows on the Software Engineering track experience what it's like to collaborate in a small group on a real project from one of our corporate or government partners.

Google Season of Docs Season of Docs provides support for open source projects to improve their documentation and gives professional technical writers an opportunity to gain experience in open source. Together we raise awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
5.Outreachy Outreachy is a diversity initiative that provides paid, remote internships to people subject to systemic bias and impacted by underrepresentation in the technical industry where they are living.

Linux Foundation (LFN) Mentorship Program.
7.Linux Kernel Mentorship Program .

Foss Asia Codeheat .

GSSOC (GirlsScript Summer of code).

10.Hacktober Fest by Digital Ocean.

So you can participate in this program and start your journey in the world of open source.
